## Decision Problems
- Most computing problems belong to the category of decision problems, i.e. the computational problems for which the intended output is either yes (accept) or no (reject). For example, is the pattern string p a substring of text string s? Is an object in a collection? Is a given array of integers sorted?
- We can often turn an optimization problem into a decision problem. For example, minimum spanning tree (minimize/optimize the sum of the weights of all edges in the result tree) can be viewed of whether an edge in the graph G should be included in G's minimum spanning tree.
- A decision problem can be represented as a set of inputs whose output is yes/accept. These inputs can further be encoded as strings over some alphabet.  
    For example, the decision problem "is an array consists exactly 3 unique numbers, each number is between 1 and 5, sorted in ascending order?" can be represented by the following set of inputs: {\[1, 2, 3], \[1, 2, 4], \[1, 2, 5], \[2, 3, 4], \[2, 3, 5], \[3, 4, 5]}
## P vs. NP
The **complexity class P** includes those problems, such that for each problem, there exists at least one algorithm that can find its solution in polynomial time.

The **complexity class NP** includes those problems, such that for each problem, its solution can be **verified** in polynomial time, but there is no guarantee that there exists an algorithm that can **find** its solution in polynomial time.
* An example of NP problem is travelling salesman problem: 
	* "Given a list of cities (vertices) and the distances between each pair of cities (weight of edges), what is the shortest possible route that visits each city exactly once and returns to the original city?" (Quote from Wikipedia with slight modification).
	* A slightly simplified example of the travelling salesman problem is Hamiltonian Cycle problem: "Given a graph G, is there a simple cycle in G that visits each vertex in G exactly once?"

P is a subset of NP. Any problem in class P is also a problem in class NP. There is no known answer whether P is a **proper** subset of NP.

**NP-completeness**: If a problem is in class NP and can be reduced to a know NP-complete problem in polynomial time, then this problem is NP-complete. Any problem in P is **NOT** in class NP-complete. All NP-complete problems are equally hard to solve.

**NP-hard**: A problem X is NP-hard if there is an NP-complete problem Y such that Y can be reduced to X in polynomial time. NP-hard problems can be equally hard as or harder than NP-complete problems. NP-hard problems may not even in NP class.
### How are NP-complete problems usually solved?
- Using approximation algorithms: try to find not the best/optimal solution but a good enough one.
- Backtracking algorithms, which are usually exponential, but can be improved if we can apply heuristics.
- Branch-and-Bound algorithms: branching would divide search space into multiple sub spaces and bounding functions would eliminate any sub spaces that doesn't look promising to contain solutions.